JUDY WOODRUFF: Time now for our
weekly segment on science and
technology, the Leading Edge.
And this week, Hari Sreenivasan
is here with an update on a
pair of important stories.
HARI SREENIVASAN: They are
important findings and analyses
on a pair of stories we have
long been covering, the
health of bees and the
impacts of climate change.
A recent study looked at
the economic consequences
of climate change and
concluded it will make
the U.S. poorer and more unequal
if present trends continue.
The South would be
hit the hardest.
A different set of studies
looked at the health of bees in
connection to insecticides used
in crops.
Bees are critical for our
global food production.
Honeybees alone are
responsible for pollinating
$15 billion of U.S. crops.
The new papers demonstrated
the popular insecticide
used in agriculture
called neonicotinoids
can be harmful to bees.
Miles O'Brien is with us again.
Miles, we have been
looking at or scientists
have been thinking
about the chemicals that
are used in insecticides as
kind of one of the number one
culprits for colony collapse
for a long time.
So, what is so new
about these studies?
MILES O'BRIEN: Well,
you're right, Hari.
There have been a lot of studies
in the past looking at bees
and these insecticides, which
are coated on the seeds
and absorbed -- they call
it systemic to the plants.
They have been widely used for
a decade, an alternative to
spraying insecticides on the
plant as they grow.
The concern is that they
can harm pollinators.
But, so far, that's only
been a theory in the lab.
Separate teams in Europe and
Canada tested the possible
link between these neonics and
bee losses in the field
for the first time.
They placed bee colonies close
to crops that had been treated
with the neonicotinoids and
other colonies far
away from agriculture.
They sampled a variety
of specimens, pollen,
nectar, larvae, bees
themselves, of course.
And they say the insecticide
is not only found in the crops
they are meant to protect, but
it spreads to other plants in
the area that are attracted
to bees, and it persists for
months.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, how does
it affect the bees, and what
happens to the whole colony?
MILES O'BRIEN: That's the key
question, connecting those dots.
Researchers at York University
in Ontario did a second test
in the laboratory mimicking
what they found in the field.
And they exposed bees
to a small amount of the
neonicotinoids-infused pollen.
And those bees stopped --
get this -- maintaining
the hygiene of their hive.
Typically, bees will
remove sick or dead bees.
But the insecticide-exposed
bees for some reason stopped
doing this, leaving sick bees
inside the hive.
And the beehive became
a pigsty, if you will.
I caught up with Nadejda
Tsvetkov, one of the
lead authors of the
York University study.
NADEJDA TSVETKOV, York
University: What we
found in our study was
that worker bees from
exposed colonies die 23
percent sooner, so that's a
very big hit to the colony.
They also had abnormal
foraging behaviors.
We found also that the
colonies had difficulty
replacing a queen.
So, over time, we had more and
more queenless colonies, which,
unless there is an intervention,
the colonies will perish.
MILES O'BRIEN: At first blush,
this study seems to put to rest
the neonic collapse debate.
But, in a separate study also
published last week, a European
team found some bee colonies
in Germany that thrived even
though they were close to fields
with neonic-treated crops.
This led researchers to believe
there must be other geographical
or environmental factor
in play.
Maybe some bees are
more susceptible to the
toxins, depending on
their locations, for
example.
In short, the studies suggests
the effects of neonics
on bees are inconsistent.
But that study was funded
in part by the German
chemical and pharmaceutical
giant Bayer, which
happens to be the maker
of neonicotinoids.
Now, in a statement, Bayer
says it remains convinced that
neonicotinoid seed treatments
have no short- or long-term
negative effects on bees, and
that these seed treatments are
useful and effective
tool for farmers.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In the
totally different category of
climate science, there was a big
study this week.
And, usually, when climate
studies come out, we're looking
at environmental impacts.
What was interesting
about this one was, it was
looking at economic impacts.
Tell us a little bit about that.
MILES O'BRIEN: Well, this
one is a very impressive
study on climate change.
Scientists in the climate realm
teamed up with economists,
the dismal science meeting
climate science, if you will.
And they looked at the economic
impacts of climate change as
you project out to the future.
And perhaps the most interesting
finding was that climate change
will hit different socioeconomic
classes differently.
Here's Berkeley scientist
and lead author of the
study Solomon Hsiang.
SOLOMON HSIANG, University of
California, Berkeley: In the
South, where it's hot, and
along the coasts, we
might see populations
losing the equivalent
of 20 percent of their
income, whereas, in the cooler
Northern and Western regions,
we actually see that populations
might benefit a little.
And because the North tends
to be wealthier and the South
tends to be poorer, what we
see is that, in the
future, climate change
is going to increase
economic inequality within
the United States.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, how
does the U.S. fare overall?
MILES O'BRIEN: Well, the team
estimates that for each degree
Fahrenheit increase in global
temperatures, the U.S. economy
overall loses about 0.7 percent
of gross domestic product,
with each degree of
warming costing more than
the last as you go up.
So, the U.S. as a whole is
not a winner economically.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, does
it break down by industry?
Say, for example,
agriculture might be hit
harder or real estate?
MILES O'BRIEN: Well,
agriculture, especially
in the Midwest, will
likely suffer immensely.
That seems obvious.
But it could be comparable to
the Dust Bowl of the 1930s,
according to these researchers.
Of course, real estate
on the coastline, that's
another obvious one.
But here's a surprise.
The team found the biggest
economic impact of climate
change was in health care.
They expect people living
in the South especially
will be hit more with
heat-related complications,
like heatstroke.
Managing that and dealing
with the victims is, of
course, very expensive.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And this
is happening to a population
that's already poorer than the
general average in
the United States.
MILES O'BRIEN: And there
is the vicious cycle.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right.
Miles O'Brien, thanks so much.
MILES O'BRIEN:
You're welcome, Hari.